README.md, before:

# MLC Bakery

A Python-based service for managing ML model provenance and lineage, built with FastAPI and SQLAlchemy. Support for Croissant metadata validation.

## Features

- Dataset management with collection support
- Entity tracking
- Activity logging
- Provenance relationships tracking
- RESTful API endpoints

## Running with Docker

1.  **Set up Environment Variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the project root by copying the example:
    ```bash
    cp env.example .env
    ```

2. **Start docker containers:**
    The bakery relies on a postgres database and Typesense for search. The MCP server makes REST calls to the API server, which then calls the persistence layer.
    ```
    docker compose up -d
    ```

3.  **Run Database Migrations:**
    Apply the latest database schema using Alembic. `uv run` executes commands within the project's managed environment.
    ```bash
    docker compose exec db psql -U postgres -c "create DATABASE mlcbakery;"
    docker compose exec api alembic upgrade head
    ```
## Access the bakery
By default, the API will be available on localhost.
-   Swagger UI: `http://bakery.localhost/docs`
-   ReDoc: `http://bakery.localhost/redoc`
-   Streamable MCP HTTP: `http://mcp.localhost/mcp` (you may need to add this to your `/etc/hosts` for local development)

## Running the Server (Locally)

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) (Python package manager)

### Development steps

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:jettyio/mlcbakery.git
    cd mlcbakery
    ```

2.  **Install Dependencies:**
    `uv` uses `pyproject.toml` to manage dependencies. It will automatically create a virtual environment if one doesn't exist.
    ```bash
    curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
    ```
    ```
    pip install poetry uvicorn
    uv run poetry install --no-interaction --no-ansi --no-root --with mcp
    ```
Start the FastAPI application using uvicorn:
```bash
# Make sure your .env file is present for the DATABASE_URL
uv run uvicorn mlcbakery.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Running Tests

The tests are configured to run against a PostgreSQL database defined by the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. You can use the same database as your development environment or configure a separate test database in your `.env` file if preferred (adjust connection string as needed).

```bash
# Ensure DATABASE_URL is set in your environment or .env file
uv run pytest
```

Commit message:

Reorganize auth strategies and dependency methods (#28)
* Reorganize auth strategies and dependency methods

Extract Admin token auth to strategy.
Remove implementation specific auth dependency methods, rename
throughout APIs.
Add test cases to verify in collections.
Add README notes.

README.md, after:

# MLC Bakery

A Python-based service for managing ML model provenance and lineage, built with FastAPI and SQLAlchemy. Support for Croissant metadata validation.

## Features

- Dataset management with collection support
- Entity tracking
- Activity logging
- Provenance relationships tracking
- RESTful API endpoints

## Running with Docker

1.  **Set up Environment Variables:**
    Create a `.env` file in the project root by copying the example:
    ```bash
    cp env.example .env
    ```

2. **Start docker containers:**
    The bakery relies on a postgres database and Typesense for search. The MCP server makes REST calls to the API server, which then calls the persistence layer.
    ```
    docker compose up -d
    ```

3.  **Run Database Migrations:**
    Apply the latest database schema using Alembic. `uv run` executes commands within the project's managed environment.
    ```bash
    docker compose exec db psql -U postgres -c "create DATABASE mlcbakery;"
    docker compose exec api alembic upgrade head
    ```
## Access the bakery
By default, the API will be available on localhost.
-   Swagger UI: `http://bakery.localhost/docs`
-   ReDoc: `http://bakery.localhost/redoc`
-   Streamable MCP HTTP: `http://mcp.localhost/mcp` (you may need to add this to your `/etc/hosts` for local development)

## Running the Server (Locally)

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.12+
- [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) (Python package manager)

### Development steps

1.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:jettyio/mlcbakery.git
    cd mlcbakery
    ```

2.  **Install Dependencies:**
    `uv` uses `pyproject.toml` to manage dependencies. It will automatically create a virtual environment if one doesn't exist.
    ```bash
    curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
    ```
    ```
    pip install poetry uvicorn
    uv run poetry install --no-interaction --no-ansi --no-root --with mcp
    ```
Start the FastAPI application using uvicorn:
```bash
# Make sure your .env file is present for the DATABASE_URL
uv run uvicorn mlcbakery.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```

### Authentication
The Bakery is setup to authenticate requests with two methods: JWT Tokens and a "Master Admin Token". Both are configured in the ENV variables (.env file). Both JWT tokens and the Master Admin Token should be provided as "Bearer" Authorization header values.

- ADMIN_AUTH_TOKEN: A fixed value that is the token a user would need to provide to have admin permissions (unrestricted access to all resources).
- JWT_VERIFICATION_STRATEGY: The URL of a trusted JWT token issuer, such as Clerk. We have a development instance of Clerk running that you can use in conjunction with the Spot application. You can sign up for an account via Spot, or contact jon@jetty.io or grayden@graydens.ca for access to the Clerk admin portal.

### Running Tests

The tests are configured to run against a PostgreSQL database defined by the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable. You can use the same database as your development environment or configure a separate test database in your `.env` file if preferred (adjust connection string as needed).

```bash
# Ensure DATABASE_URL is set in your environment or .env file
uv run pytest
```
